Title: Improving my language level
Date: 2011-10-26 19:33
Author: niceguydave
Category: Language
Tags: german
Slug: improving-my-language-level

In terms of learning German, I'm in the fortunate position of having a
wife who comes from Hamburg. We've been together five years.  "Job done"
I hear someone say.  "You must be fluent by now".

Hmm. Not exactly.

That's not to say I'm unable to use German effectively.  I'd say I'm
somewhere between the B2 and C1 level on the
[CEFR](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_European_Framework_of_Reference_for_Languages "Common European Framework of Reference for Languages") scale -
I can hold my own pretty well in conversations but I'm presently finding
myself grasping for the finer points of conversation a lot of the time.
 I feel as if I should be better than I currently am.

I've been having a bit of a think about the next steps I could take in
terms of pushing forward past this current *impasse*.

**1. Use Flash Cards more**  
As much as I know that [Flash Cards are a great way to commit
information to long-term
memory](http://www.fluentin3months.com/spaced-repetition/), I just have
a problem using them.  I have a stack of cards at home and about five
pieces of SRS software on my laptop at home, none of them really used
extensively.  I think the reason for my not being successful with these
is that I just don't grab *essential snippets* of real language.  I
guess were I to have these essential snippets then I'd me more inclined
to want to remember things. Which leads on to the next point...

**2. Start recording things  
**I've got a smart phone with a voice recorder on it and also a
dictaphone which is small enough to carry around.  *If* I remember to
use it, that is. That's the current problem: when I find myself lost for
words, I know then exactly what is important to learn but I generally
don't record what I need to say and bring it home to be logged and
memorised. To my mind, if I could set a goal of bringing back five
phrases a day to be written down and memorised I'd be well on the way to
improving my language level.

<div>
**3. Use less English at home  
**With reference to the opening paragraph: the reason I speak any German
*at all* is because of my wife.  It seemed natural to me to want to
learn German when we met - how else could I *really* know about her and
her family and friends?  I think the problem is that since our default
language is English, this is the language that we always revert to if it
gets tricky to communicate a point.  So I'm not really having to do the
hard work of learning how to communicate difficult issues.    In terms
of practicalities, though, this isn't always the easiest one.  When
something has to be said urgently the last thing either of us want is to
be grasping for the words.  Saying this, it has gotten better.  We
probably use German at home about 20% of the time.

</div>
**4. Make sure I spend as much time as possible in small German-speaking
groups  
**Just the other night, a German friend was visiting for dinner.  One of
the best things for me in terms of language learning in these moments is
that that I can hear German spoken in a closed environment (no external
distractions) and with a level of German that (can be) a step above my
comprehension.  There is enough comprehensible input for me to follow
along with what is going on but also enough novelty for me to take note
of what I *don't* know and need to learn.

**<span style="font-size:small;">5. </span>Getting along to a language
class**  
I tried this a few times last year and, to be honest, it didn't really
work for me.  I think the problem was that I'd gone for classes below my
level and I really wasn't challenged enough. Add to this that my current
disposable income is a bit low right now, I'd rather find other ways to
learn than being sat in a classroom.

This isn't an extensive list but should at least show what I think are
the some way forward for me at this point in time.  Do you think my list
is inclusive enough? Am I missing something obvious? Please let me know
at the comments block below!
