Title: Lang-8
Date: 2011-11-03 14:39
Author: niceguydave
Category: Language
Tags: Lang-8, teaching
Slug: lang-8

Having a little bit of time on my hands (I'm on holiday) I was able to
have a bit of a look around the web for some language resources which
could help me along the way.  I had some nice feedback from Clarence at
[TheFineApps](http://thefineapps.com/2011/09/21/general-language-learning-tips/ "General Language Learning Tips"),
pointing me towards some observations that he's been able to make on the
language learning path.  Trying out new, fun ways of learning is
something I can't disagree with - the more it feels like hard work the
less likely I am to stick to it.  So I had a bit of a look around.  Once
I'd found [Lang-8](http://lang-8.com/) I stopped looking - this looks to
me like it could be a great place to improve my written language, as
well as helping other people out. From what I can tell, this is a place
where it's possible to post snippets in your target language and hope
that people will be able to post comments and corrections.  Since most
of the post here are in English I thought I'd help do some correcting.
 What I found interesting about this is that, having had no formal
languages teaching experience, I'm at a loss why we would say in English
"I am crossing the road" rather than "I am crossing \*a\* road".  It's
given me plenty of food for thought.  Written German isn't my strong
point so I'll be looking to use this site more and more to help me gain
more confidence.  I've posted a cursory couple of paragraphs about a
[trip I made to The British Museum](http://lang-8.com/326400/journals)
yesterday.  All done off the top of my head so no checking for adjective
declination and cases etc. (this probably says *a lot* about my approach
to the finer points of language learning!)

I'm also aware that the only way I'm going to progress is to start doing
a little bit every day and ensure that I keep things moving slowly but
surely.  I think Clarence's daily posting log is a really good idea -
from my experience it's much easier to keep moving forward when I can
see where I've come from.  I'll probably do something similar, although
not post these to Twitter or Facebook for these "check in" tasks.
